README.md, before:

## VaMPy - Vascular Modeling Pypeline
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/KVSlab/Aneurysm_workflow.svg?token=qbve9tcy6am6sUJksBcu&branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/KVSlab/Aneurysm_workflow)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/KVSlab/VaMPy/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=M2NMX6HOSZ)](https://codecov.io/gh/KVSlab/VaMPy)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/vampy/badge/?version=latest)](https://vampy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

<p align="center">
    <img src=test/processed_model.png width="830 height="370" alt="Output pre processing"/>
</p>
<p align="center">
    Meshed and processed artery model. A variable density volumetric mesh (left), with corresponding inlet flow rate, outlet flow splits, and probes for velocity and pressure sampling (middle), generated by the pre-processing tools. Following the fluid simulation, temporal wall shear stress gradient (right) is one of the hemodynamic indices computed by the post-processing scripts.
</p>

Description
-----------
The Vascular Modeling Pypeline (VaMPy) is a collection of scripts used to prepare, run, and analyze cardiac and atrial morphologies.  This includes pre-processing scripts for meshing and probe sampling, a [Oasis](https://github.com/mikaem/Oasis) problem file for simulating flow in the [internal carotid artery](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internal_carotid_artery), and a variety of post-processing scripts for computing WSS-based metrics, more advanced turbulence metrics, and a variety of morphological parameters in patient-specific geometries. 


Authors
-------
VaMPy has been developed by

* Aslak Wigdahl Bergersen
* Christophe Chnafa
* Henrik A. Kjeldsberg

Licence
-------
VaMPy is licensed under the GNU GPL, version 3 or (at your option) any
later version.

VaMPy is Copyright (2018-2021) by the authors.

Documentation
-------------
For detailed installation notes and an introduction to VaMPy, please refer to the [documentation](https://vampy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

Installation
------------
For reference, VaMPy requires the following dependencies: VTK > 8.1, Numpy <= 1.13, SciPy > 1.0.0, VMTK 1.4, ITK, Paramiko, and FEniCS. 
If you are on Windows, macOS or Linux you can install all the general dependencies through [Anaconda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html).
First install Anaconda or Miniconda (preferably the Python 3.6 version).
Then create two environments, one for `VMTK` and one for `FEniCS` by executing the following in a terminal

    conda create -n vmtk -c vmtk python=3.6 itk vtk vmtk paramiko
    conda create -n fenics -c conda-forge fenics

You might run into a problem with VMTK 1.4 if using Python 3, or if you are a Linux user, and we have therefore provided a set of temporary fixes for these known issues [here](https://vampy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html#known-issues).

Next, you need to install [`Oasis`](https://github.com/mikaem/Oasis). You can do so with the following commands:

    conda activate fenics
    git clone https://github.com/mikaem/Oasis
    cd Oasis
    pip install . && pip install cppimport 

Finally, you are ready to clone and use the Vascular Modeling Pypeline:

    git clone https://github.com/KVSLab/VaMPy.git
    cd VaMPy

Issues
------
Please report bugs and other issues through the issue tracker at:

https://github.com/KVSlab/VaMPy/issues

Commit message:

Update docs and readme with morphman dependency

README.md, after:

## VaMPy - Vascular Modeling Pypeline
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/KVSlab/Aneurysm_workflow.svg?token=qbve9tcy6am6sUJksBcu&branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/KVSlab/Aneurysm_workflow)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/KVSlab/VaMPy/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=M2NMX6HOSZ)](https://codecov.io/gh/KVSlab/VaMPy)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/vampy/badge/?version=latest)](https://vampy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

<p align="center">
    <img src=test/processed_model.png width="830 height="370" alt="Output pre processing"/>
</p>
<p align="center">
    Meshed and processed artery model. A variable density volumetric mesh (left), with corresponding inlet flow rate, outlet flow splits, and probes for velocity and pressure sampling (middle), generated by the pre-processing tools. Following the fluid simulation, temporal wall shear stress gradient (right) is one of the hemodynamic indices computed by the post-processing scripts.
</p>

Description
-----------
The Vascular Modeling Pypeline (VaMPy) is a collection of scripts used to prepare, run, and analyze cardiac and atrial morphologies.  This includes pre-processing scripts for meshing and probe sampling, a [Oasis](https://github.com/mikaem/Oasis) problem file for simulating flow in the [internal carotid artery](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internal_carotid_artery), and a variety of post-processing scripts for computing WSS-based metrics, more advanced turbulence metrics, and a variety of morphological parameters in patient-specific geometries. 


Authors
-------
VaMPy has been developed by

* Aslak Wigdahl Bergersen
* Christophe Chnafa
* Henrik A. Kjeldsberg

Licence
-------
VaMPy is licensed under the GNU GPL, version 3 or (at your option) any
later version.

VaMPy is Copyright (2018-2021) by the authors.

Documentation
-------------
For detailed installation notes and an introduction to VaMPy, please refer to the [documentation](https://vampy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

Installation
------------
For reference, VaMPy requires the following dependencies: morphMan, FEniCS, and Paramiko. 
If you are on Windows, macOS or Linux you can install all the general dependencies through [Anaconda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html).
First install Anaconda or Miniconda (preferably the Python 3.6 version).
Then create two environments, one for `morphMan` and one for `FEniCS` by executing the following in a terminal

    conda create -n morphman -c morphman python=3.6 paramiko
    conda create -n fenics -c conda-forge fenics

You might run into a problem with the `morphMan` dependency `VMTK` 1.4 if using Python 3, or if you are a Linux user, and we have therefore provided a set of temporary fixes for these known issues [here](https://vampy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html#known-issues).

Next, you need to install [`Oasis`](https://github.com/mikaem/Oasis). You can do so with the following commands:

    conda activate fenics
    git clone https://github.com/mikaem/Oasis
    cd Oasis
    pip install . && pip install cppimport 

Finally, you are ready to clone and use the Vascular Modeling Pypeline:

    git clone https://github.com/KVSLab/VaMPy.git
    cd VaMPy

Issues
------
Please report bugs and other issues through the issue tracker at:

https://github.com/KVSlab/VaMPy/issues
