docs/atrium.md, before:

(tutorial:atrium)=
# Hemodynamics simulation on a left atrium

The second tutorial focuses on a left atrium geometry, collected from a
published public dataset by Roney et al.{cite}`roney2021constructing`, located
[here](https://zenodo.org/record/3764917#.YyHwsuxByDV). In particular,
we selected the endocardium model labeled `LA_Endo_5.vtk` in the
dataset, representing the inner left atrium wall. The tutorial is meant
to demonstrate that VaMPy is also applicable to other vascular domains,
not only tubular structures.

> **Note**: Because VaMPy relies on `vtkPolyData` as input, the `.vtk` model needs
to be converted to `.vtp` format, which can quicly be done in ParaView
by using the `Extract Surface` filter, and saving the data as
`LA_Endo_5.vtp`.

## Meshing an atrium with refined appendage

The morphology of the left atrium is shown in {numref}`atrium`, and typically
includes an average of four pulmonary veins leading to a
large chamber where blood circulates during the atrial diastole, before
being pumped through the mitral valve into the left
ventricle during atrial systole. In addition, on the left side of the
chamber, the left atrium harbours the left atrial
appendage, a small pouch-like extension of the atrium and
known to the most prone site of blood clot formation. Hence, this region
of the left atrium is of interest, similar to aneurysms as presented
earlier.

```{figure} figures/la.png
---
name: atrium
---
The surface model considered in this tutorial, where we have
pointed out two of the four pulmonary veins, the left atrial appendage,
and the mitral valve.
```

Therefore, to ensure that the hemodynamics are captured sufficiently
inside the left atrial appendage, we will perform mesh generation with
refinement of this particular region. To manually refine a region on the
geometry, the user may provide the `--refine-region True` flag, or
`-r True` for short. Thus, to include a user-defined area of refinement,
run the following command:

``` console
$ python automatedPreProcessing/automatedPreProcessing.py -m constant -i LA_Endo/5/LA_Endo_5.vtp -r True -el 1.5 -bl False -fli 1 -flo 3 -at True
```

Here, the `-fli` and `-flo` flags determine the length of the flow
extensions at the inlets and outlet, respectively, and the `-at` flag is
used to notify the pipeline that an atrium model is being meshed. By
executing the command above, the mesh generation becomes
*semi-automated*, and a render window will eventually pop
up, asking the user to specify a point on the surface that will
represent the region that will be refined, as shown in Figure 7.
Navigate with the mouse, and press `space` to place a point, `u` to
undo, and `q` to proceed. The rest of the meshing pipeline is automated.
Alternatively, the user may supply the `--region-points` (`-rp` for
short), followed by three numbers representing the $x, y$, and $z$
coordinates of the point, make the pipeline fully
*automated* again. If the point is located slightly off the
surface, it will stick to the closest surface point. For the point shown
in {numref}`seed`, this would correspond to running the following command:

``` console
$ python automatedPreProcessing/automatedPreProcessing.py -m constant -i LA_Endo/5/LA_Endo_5.vtp -r True -rp 29.8 28.7 66.5 -el 1.5 -bl False -fli 1 -flo 3 -at True
```
```{figure} figures/la_vmtk.png
---
name: seed
---
VMTK render window for placing a seed, corresponding to area
that will be refined.
```

Using the command above should result in a volumetric mesh consisting of
\~3.1M tetrahedral cells, as shown in {numref}`la-mesh`, also displaying the
refinement in the left atrial appendage, including four boundary layers.

```{figure} figures/la_mesh.png
---
name: la-mesh
---
Volumetric mesh of the left atrium model, with a zoomed in
view of the left atrial appendage, clipped to display the refinement and
four boundary layers.
```

## CFD simulation of the left atrium

The resulting mesh from the previous section is now used as input to the
CFD simulations, followed by computation of the hemodynamic indices. The
only real difference from the artery problem from eariler is that
instead of running the `Artery.py` problem file, we here will be solving
the problem defined in `Atrium.py`, also located in the `simulation`
folder. Assuming the user has navigated to the `simulation` folder,
running a left atrial CFD simulation can be performed by executing the
following command:

``` console
$ oasis NSfracStep problem=Atrium mesh_path=../LA_Endo/5/LA_5_Endo.xml.gz T=951 dt=0.951 save_solution_after_cycle=0
```

Running the simulations will create the result folder `results_atrium`,
with the results and corresponding mesh saved compactly in HDF5 format.
For this particular model, the simulation was run for one cardiac cycle,
corresponding to 0.951 s, with $\Delta t =$ 0.951 ms resulting in a
total of 1000 time steps per cycle. Finally, in {numref}`la-hemo` we present a
velocity slice with vectors, the temporal wall shear stress gradient
(TWSSG), time averaged wall shear stress (TAWSS), oscillatory shear
index (OSI), relative residence time (RRT), and the endothelial cell
activation potential (ECAP).

```{figure} figures/la_hemo.png
---
name: la-hemo
---
From left to right: a slice through the geometry displaying
the velocity field and corresponding vectors scaled by the velocity
magnitude, TWSSG, TAWSS, OSI, RRT, and ECAP.
```

```{bibliography}
:filter: docname in docnames
```

Commit message:

Add flake ignores, update tutorials, create commands for scripts, add cycle avg demonstration

docs/atrium.md, after:

(tutorial:atrium)=
# Hemodynamics simulation on a left atrium

The second tutorial focuses on a left atrium geometry, collected from a
published public dataset by Roney et al.{cite}`roney2021constructing`, located
[here](https://zenodo.org/record/3764917#.YyHwsuxByDV). In particular,
we selected the endocardium model labeled `LA_Endo_5.vtk` in the
dataset, representing the inner left atrium wall. The tutorial is meant
to demonstrate that VaMPy is also applicable to other vascular domains,
not only tubular structures.

> **Note**: Because VaMPy relies on `vtkPolyData` as input, the `.vtk` model needs
to be converted to `.vtp` (or `.stl`) format, which can quicly be done in ParaView
by using the `Extract Surface` filter, and saving the data as
`LA_Endo_5.vtp`.

## Meshing an atrium with appendage refinement

The morphology of the left atrium is shown in {numref}`atrium`, and typically
includes an average of four pulmonary veins leading to a
large chamber where blood circulates during the atrial diastole, before
being pumped through the mitral valve into the left
ventricle during atrial systole. In addition, on the left side of the
chamber, the left atrium harbours the left atrial
appendage, a small pouch-like extension of the atrium and
known to be the most prone site of blood clot formation. Hence, this region
of the left atrium is of interest, similar to intracranial aneurysms as presented
earlier for the artery case.

```{figure} figures/la.png
---
name: atrium
---
The surface model considered in this tutorial, where we have
pointed out two of the four pulmonary veins, the left atrial appendage,
and the mitral valve.
```

To ensure that the hemodynamics are captured sufficiently
inside the left atrial appendage, we will perform mesh generation with
refinement of this particular region. To manually refine a region on the
geometry, the user may provide the `--refine-region True` flag, or
`-r True` for short. Thus, to include a user-defined area of refinement,
run the following command:

``` console
$ vampy-mesh -m constant -i LA_Endo/5/LA_Endo_5.vtp -r True -el 1.5 -bl False -fli 1 -flo 3 -at True
```

Here, the `-fli` and `-flo` flags determine the length of the flow
extensions at the inlets and outlet, respectively, and the `-at` flag is
used to notify the pipeline that an atrium model is being meshed. By
executing the command above, the mesh generation becomes
*semi-automated*, and a render window will eventually pop
up, asking the user to specify a point on the surface that will
represent the region that will be refined, as shown in Figure 7.
Navigate with the mouse, and press `space` to place a point, `u` to
undo, and `q` to proceed. The rest of the meshing pipeline is automated.
Alternatively, the user may supply the `--region-points` (`-rp` for
short), followed by three numbers representing the $x, y$, and $z$
coordinates of the point, making the pipeline fully
*automated* again. If the point is located slightly off the
surface, it will stick to the closest surface point. For the point shown
in {numref}`seed`, this would correspond to running the following command:

``` console
$ vampy-mesh -m constant -i LA_Endo/5/LA_Endo_5.vtp -r True -rp 29.8 28.7 66.5 -el 1.5 -bl False -fli 1 -flo 3 -at True
```
```{figure} figures/la_vmtk.png
---
name: seed
---
Render window for placing a seed, defining which region of the geometry that will be refined.
```

Using the command above should result in a volumetric mesh consisting of
\~3.1M tetrahedral cells, as shown in {numref}`la-mesh` displaying the
refinement in the left atrial appendage, and four boundary layers.

```{figure} figures/la_mesh.png
---
name: la-mesh
---
Volumetric mesh of the left atrium model, with a zoomed in
view of the left atrial appendage, clipped to display the refinement and
four boundary layers.
```

## CFD simulation of the left atrium

The resulting mesh from the previous section is now used as input to the
CFD simulation, followed by computation of the hemodynamic indices. The
only real difference from the artery problem from eariler is that
instead of running the `Artery.py` problem file, we here will be solving
the problem defined in `Atrium.py`, also located in the `simulation`
folder. 
Thus, running a left atrial CFD simulation can be performed by executing the
following command:

``` console
$ vampy-oasis problem=Atrium mesh_path=../LA_Endo/5/LA_5_Endo.xml.gz T=951 dt=0.951 save_solution_after_cycle=0
```

Running the simulations will create the result folder `results_atrium`,
with the results and corresponding mesh saved compactly in HDF5 format.
For this demonstration, the simulation was run for one cardiac cycle,
corresponding to 0.951 s, with $\Delta t =$ 0.951 ms resulting in a
total of 1000 time steps per cycle. 
In {numref}`la-hemo` we present the volumetric rendering of velocity, the pressure field,
the Q-criterion displaying vortical structures, and three hemodynamic
indices; the time averaged wall shear stress (TAWSS), the oscillatory
shear index (OSI), and the relative residence time (RRT).

```{figure} figures/atrium.png
---
name: la-hemo
---
From left to right: the volumetric rendering of velocity,
the pressure field, volumetric rendering of the Q-criterion, TAWSS, OSI,
and RRT.
```

```{bibliography}
:filter: docname in docnames
```
