docs/postprocess.md, before:

(overview:post)=

# Post-processing

Following the CFD simulations, the last step of the Vascular Modeling Pypeline is post-processing of the results.
Hemodynamic indices are computed in the script `compute_hemodynamic_indices.py` through the VaMPy-command `vampy-hemo`,
and stored in a folder named `Hemodynamics`. Flow and simulation metrics are computed in the
script `compute_flow_and_simulation_metrics.py` through the VaMPy-command `vampy-metrics`, and stored in a folder
named `FlowMetrics`. Converting velocity and pressure to viewable `.xdmf`-format is performed in the
script `compute_velocity_and_pressure.py` through the VaMPy-command `vampy-convert`. Finally, visualization of the
velocity and pressure at the probes is implemented in `visualize_probes.py` and run through the `vampy-probe` command.

```{attention} 
In the following examples, we assume the user is working from the root directory of VaMPy, and 
that the solution files produced by VaMPy (`u.h5`, `p.h5`, `mesh.h5`) are located inside the `Solutions` folder.
```

## Hemodynamic indices

To start with we can compute the wall shear stress, oscillatory shear index (OSI) and other hemodynamic indices by
executing the following command:

``` console
$ vampy-hemo --case src/vampy/simulation/results_artery/artery/data/[RUN_NUMBER]/Solutions
```

This produces several `.xdmf` and corresponding `.h5` files, which can be visualized
in [ParaView](https://www.paraview.org/). A list of all the computed quantities can be
viewed [here](post:hemo_quantities). In {numref}`post-hemo` we have visualized the time averaged wall shear stress (
TAWSS), temporal wall shear stress gradient (TWSSG), and relative residence time (RRT) for the artery case.

```{figure} figures/post_hemo.png
---
name: post-hemo
---
Visualization of the wall shear stress (left), temporal wall shear stress gradient (middle) and the RRT (right) for the artery case. 
Note that all quantities have been time averaged over the last cardiac cycles.
```

## Flow and simulation metrics

To compute fluid dynamic quantities and simulation metrics, you may execute the following command:

``` console
$ vampy-metrics --case src/vampy/simulation/results_artery/artery/data/[RUN_NUMBER]/Solutions
```

This produces several `.xdmf` and corresponding `.h5` files, which can be visualized
in [ParaView](https://www.paraview.org/). A list of all the computed quantities viewed [here](post:flow_quantities). In
{numref}`post-flow` we have visualized the kinetic energy, average velocity and the characteristic edge length for the
artery model.

```{figure} figures/post_flow.png
---
name: post-flow
---
Visualization of the time averaged kinetic energy (left), time averaged velocity (middle) and the characteristic edge length (right) for the artery case. 
```

## Velocity and pressure

For data storage reasons velocity and pressure results are currently saved in the compressed `.h5` format, and are
therefore not viewable in a software such as
[ParaView](https://www.paraview.org/). If it is desired to convert the compressed velocity and pressure results to
viewable `.xdmf` format, you may execute the following command:

``` console
$ vampy-convert --case src/vampy/simulation/results_artery/artery/data/[RUN_NUMBER]/Solutions
```

The script will store the velocity and pressure into `velocity.xdmf` and `pressure.xdmf`, respectively, to
the `Solutions` folder. In {numref}`post-vel` we have visualized the instanteneous veloctiy and pressure at the end of
the simulation for the artery case.

```{figure} figures/post_vel.png
---
name: post-vel
---
Visualization of the volumetric velocity (left) and scalar pressure field (right) for the artery case.
```

## Probe visualization

To visualize velocity and pressure at the probes created by
`Artery.py` or `Atrium.py`, you can run the `vampy-probe` command:

``` console
$ vampy-probe --case src/vampy/simulation/results_artery/artery/data/[RUN_NUMBER]/Probes --probe-frequency 100
```

Note that you may have to adjust the `--probe-frequency` argument, depending on the frequency of probe sampling. The
script also has an additional dependency to
[Matplotlib](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib), which can easily be installed with either `conda` or `pip`. In
{numref}`post-probe` we have shown a subset of the velocity and pressure traces at four probes within the artery
geometry.

```{figure} figures/post_probe.png
---
name: post-probe
---
Probe visualization for pressure (blue) and velocity (red) at four probes within the artery geometry.
```

## Phase and cycle averaged quantities

By default, `vampy-metrics` computes the average values over a full cycle, for a desired number of cycles, determined by
the `--start-cycle` flag. Setting `--start-cycle 2` would correspond to computing the averaged values from the second
cardiac cycle and onward. Alternatively, the user may supply the specific times $t$ during the cardiac cycle $T$ to
the `--times-to-average` flag, to compute phase averaged quantities, where $t \in [0,T)$. Thus, to compute the metrics
at $t=0.2$ s, representing peak systole, and to skip the first cycle, the user may run the following command:

``` console
$ vampy-metrics --case src/vampy/simulation/results_artery/artery/data/[RUN_NUMBER]/Solutions --start-cycle 2 --times-to-average 200 --T 1000 --dt 0.1
```

Note that the specified time is in milliseconds. A comparison between time averaged and phase averaged kinetic energy (
KE) and turbulent kinetic energy (TKE) for a representative artery model is shown in {numref}`phase`. The leftmost
panels displays the model, which is
case [C0097](https://github.com/hkjeldsberg/AneuriskDatabase/tree/master/models/C0097) from
the [Aneurisk](http://ecm2.mathcs.emory.edu/aneuriskweb/index) database. The top middle panel displays the time averaged
KE over the last four cycles, whereas the bottom middle panel displays the phase averaged KE at $t=0.2$ s. Similarly,
the top right panel displays the time averaged TKE over the last four cycles, and bottom right panel displays the phase
averaged TKE at $t=0.2$ s. For this illustration, the simulation was run over five cycles, and the metrics were computed
over the last four cycles.

```{figure} figures/phase_averaged.png
---
name: phase
---
Time and phase average kinetic energy and turbulent kinetic
energy. The leftmost panel display the model, the middle panels display
kinetic energy, and the rightmost panel display turbulent kinetic
energy.
```

Another feature of the `vampy-metrics` and `vampy-hemo` scripts is computation of time averaged quantities per cycle.
This is controlled by the `--average-over-cycles` flag, which when supplied will output additional files that are
averaged over each cycle in the format `[QUANTITY]_cycle_[#CYCLE].xdmf`. To demonstrate qualitative differences per
cycle, we have simulated an open-source model of the [left atrium](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atrium_(heart)),
particularly [Case 7]([here](https://zenodo.org/record/3764917#.YyHwsuxByDV)) from Roney et
al.{cite}`roney2021constructing`
The model is simulated with `Atrium.py` over five cycles, and is post-processed with the following command:

``` console
$ vampy-metrics --case src/vampy/simulation/results_atrium/atrium/data/[RUN_NUMBER]/Solutions --start-cycle 1 --dt 0.951 --average-over-cycles
```

Running this command produces cycle averaged results for all the relevant quantitites. To demonstrate qualitative
differences in the left atrial appendage we have shown a comparison between cycles in {numref}`phase` for the TKE.

```{figure} figures/cycle_averaged.png
---
name: cycle
---
Time averaged turbulent kinetic energy per cardiac cycle. 
The top leftmost panel display the model, and the remaining panels show a slice of the time averaged TKE for each of the cardiac cycles, showing qualitative differences in the left atrial appendage.
```

```{bibliography}
:filter: docname in docnames
```

Commit message:

Replace artery model with atrium model for phase avg example

docs/postprocess.md, after:

(overview:post)=

# Post-processing

Following the CFD simulations, the last step of the Vascular Modeling Pypeline is post-processing of the results.
Hemodynamic indices are computed in the script `compute_hemodynamic_indices.py` through the VaMPy-command `vampy-hemo`,
and stored in a folder named `Hemodynamics`. Flow and simulation metrics are computed in the
script `compute_flow_and_simulation_metrics.py` through the VaMPy-command `vampy-metrics`, and stored in a folder
named `FlowMetrics`. Converting velocity and pressure to viewable `.xdmf`-format is performed in the
script `compute_velocity_and_pressure.py` through the VaMPy-command `vampy-convert`. Finally, visualization of the
velocity and pressure at the probes is implemented in `visualize_probes.py` and run through the `vampy-probe` command.

```{attention} 
In the following examples, we assume the user is working from the root directory of VaMPy, and 
that the solution files produced by VaMPy (`u.h5`, `p.h5`, `mesh.h5`) are located inside the `Solutions` folder.
```

## Hemodynamic indices

To start with we can compute the wall shear stress, oscillatory shear index (OSI) and other hemodynamic indices by
executing the following command:

``` console
$ vampy-hemo --case src/vampy/simulation/results_artery/artery/data/[RUN_NUMBER]/Solutions
```

This produces several `.xdmf` and corresponding `.h5` files, which can be visualized
in [ParaView](https://www.paraview.org/). A list of all the computed quantities can be
viewed [here](post:hemo_quantities). In {numref}`post-hemo` we have visualized the time averaged wall shear stress (
TAWSS), temporal wall shear stress gradient (TWSSG), and relative residence time (RRT) for the artery case.

```{figure} figures/post_hemo.png
---
name: post-hemo
---
Visualization of the wall shear stress (left), temporal wall shear stress gradient (middle) and the RRT (right) for the artery case. 
Note that all quantities have been time averaged over the last cardiac cycles.
```

## Flow and simulation metrics

To compute fluid dynamic quantities and simulation metrics, you may execute the following command:

``` console
$ vampy-metrics --case src/vampy/simulation/results_artery/artery/data/[RUN_NUMBER]/Solutions
```

This produces several `.xdmf` and corresponding `.h5` files, which can be visualized
in [ParaView](https://www.paraview.org/). A list of all the computed quantities viewed [here](post:flow_quantities). In
{numref}`post-flow` we have visualized the kinetic energy, average velocity and the characteristic edge length for the
artery model.

```{figure} figures/post_flow.png
---
name: post-flow
---
Visualization of the time averaged kinetic energy (left), time averaged velocity (middle) and the characteristic edge length (right) for the artery case. 
```

## Velocity and pressure

For data storage reasons velocity and pressure results are currently saved in the compressed `.h5` format, and are
therefore not viewable in a software such as
[ParaView](https://www.paraview.org/). If it is desired to convert the compressed velocity and pressure results to
viewable `.xdmf` format, you may execute the following command:

``` console
$ vampy-convert --case src/vampy/simulation/results_artery/artery/data/[RUN_NUMBER]/Solutions
```

The script will store the velocity and pressure into `velocity.xdmf` and `pressure.xdmf`, respectively, to
the `Solutions` folder. In {numref}`post-vel` we have visualized the instanteneous veloctiy and pressure at the end of
the simulation for the artery case.

```{figure} figures/post_vel.png
---
name: post-vel
---
Visualization of the volumetric velocity (left) and scalar pressure field (right) for the artery case.
```

## Probe visualization

To visualize velocity and pressure at the probes created by
`Artery.py` or `Atrium.py`, you can run the `vampy-probe` command:

``` console
$ vampy-probe --case src/vampy/simulation/results_artery/artery/data/[RUN_NUMBER]/Probes --probe-frequency 100
```

Note that you may have to adjust the `--probe-frequency` argument, depending on the frequency of probe sampling. The
script also has an additional dependency to
[Matplotlib](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib), which can easily be installed with either `conda` or `pip`. In
{numref}`post-probe` we have shown a subset of the velocity and pressure traces at four probes within the artery
geometry.

```{figure} figures/post_probe.png
---
name: post-probe
---
Probe visualization for pressure (blue) and velocity (red) at four probes within the artery geometry.
```

## Phase and cycle averaged quantities

By default, `vampy-metrics` computes the average values over a full cycle, for a desired number of cycles, determined by
the `--start-cycle` flag. Setting `--start-cycle 2` would correspond to computing the averaged values from the second
cardiac cycle and onward. Alternatively, the user may supply the specific times $t$ during the cardiac cycle $T$ to
the `--times-to-average` flag, to compute phase averaged quantities, where $t \in [0,T)$. To demonstrate the qualitative
differences, we have simulated an open-source model of the [left atrium](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atrium_(heart)),
particularly [Case 7]([here](https://zenodo.org/record/3764917#.YyHwsuxByDV)) from Roney et
al.{cite}`roney2021constructing` The model is simulated
with [Atrium.py](https://github.com/KVSlab/VaMPy/blob/master/src/vampy/simulation/Atrium.py) over five cycles using
$T=951$ ms and $\Delta t = 0.951$ ms, which are the default values in the problem file. To compute the metrics at
$t=200\Delta t$, and to skip the first cycle, run the following command:

``` console
$ vampy-metrics --case src/vampy/simulation/results_atrium/atrium/data/[RUN_NUMBER]/Solutions --start-cycle 2 --times-to-average 190.2 
```

Note that the specified time ($t=190.2$) is in milliseconds. A comparison between time averaged and phase averaged
kinetic energy (KE) and turbulent kinetic energy (TKE) for the atrium model is shown in the leftmost panel in
{numref}`phase`. The top middle panel displays the time averaged KE over the last four cycles, whereas the bottom middle
panel displays the phase averaged KE at $t=0.19$ s. Similarly, the top right panel displays the time averaged TKE over
the last four cycles, and bottom right panel displays the phase averaged TKE at $t=0.19$ s. For this demonstration, the
simulation was run over five cycles, while the metrics were computed over the last four cycles.

```{figure} figures/phase_averaged.png
---
name: phase
---
Time and phase average kinetic energy and turbulent kinetic
energy. The leftmost panel display the model, the middle panels display
kinetic energy, and the rightmost panel display turbulent kinetic
energy. Note that KE and TKE have been scaled independently. 
```

Another feature of the `vampy-metrics` and `vampy-hemo` scripts is computation of time averaged quantities *per cycle*.
This is controlled by the `--average-over-cycles` flag, which when supplied will output additional files that are
averaged over each cycle in the format `[QUANTITY]_cycle_[#CYCLE].xdmf`. To demonstrate this feature, we consider the
atrium model from before, and perform post-processing using the following command:

``` console
$ vampy-metrics --case src/vampy/simulation/results_atrium/atrium/data/[RUN_NUMBER]/Solutions --start-cycle 1 --average-over-cycles
```

Running this command produces cycle averaged results for all the relevant quantitites. To demonstrate qualitative
differences in the left atrial appendage we have shown a comparison between cycles in {numref}`phase` for the TKE.

```{figure} figures/cycle_averaged.png
---
name: cycle
---
Time averaged turbulent kinetic energy per cardiac cycle. 
The top leftmost panel display the model, and the remaining panels show a slice of the time averaged TKE for each of the cardiac cycles, showing qualitative differences in the left atrial appendage. 
```

```{bibliography}
:filter: docname in docnames
```
